My God is the Lord. He's the wayward man. The
shelter in the time of dawn. He's the lily of the
valley. And he is the friend of peace. When they
put old John in the kettle of water, he's a screw and
a falling tree. My God is a rock in the weary land,
the weary land, in the weary land. My God is a rock in
the weary
land, a killer in the time of dawn. My God died on
Calvary, then I know
he's
a rockin' too.
Where in land, where in land, where in land, my
heart is a-rockin'. Where in land, where in land,
where in land, my heart is a-rockin'. Where in
land, where in land, where in land, my heart is
a-rockin'. Where in land, where in land, where in
land, my heart is a-rockin'. Where in land, where
in land, where in land, my heart is a-rockin'.
Where in land, where in land, where in land, my
heart is a-rockin'. Where in land, where in land,
where in land, my heart is a-rockin'. Where in
land, where in land, where in land, my heart is
a-rockin'. Where in land, where in land, where in
land, my heart is a-rockin'. Where in land, where
in land, where in land, my heart is a-rockin'.
Where in land, where in land, where in land, my
heart is a-rockin'. Where in land, When they put
old John in to kill the boy, Jesus grew the barley
green. My God is the rock in this weary land, in this
weary land, in this weary land. My God is the rock in
this weary land, the killer in the time of the home.
Soften, let me tell you about the chapel of four.
The Lord God filled it all among the four. Soften,
let me tell you about the chapel of five. The Lord
God called those dead alive. Soften, let me tell
you about the chapel of six. He's ready to use the
love and heal his days. And I know he's a rock in the
weary land. Weary land in the weary land. My God is a
rock in the weary land. Sure in his time
of storm. Stop and let me tell you right to chapter
seven. The Lord's going to lead you anywhere to
heaven. Stop and let me tell you about the chapel of
10. I see you standing at the golden gate. Stop and
let me tell you about the chapel of 9. The Lord's
gonna turn that water to wine. Stop and let me tell
you about the chapel of 10. John said he's coming in
the world again And I know he's a-rockin' where
he lands Where he lands Where he lands And I know
he's a-rockin' where he lands Sure in the time of
storm Here's the lily of the valley Here's a virgin
morning song. When they put on that lion dance,
Jesus loves the lion's jaw. And I know he's a rock in
the way of the land, way of the land, and the way of
the land. And I know he's a rock in the way of the
land, shelter in the time of storm.
342, A1, 2, and 3. Lord, give the
whole earth my grace to see. Tell them he that
trusts my word shall be saved, but he that won't
believe it shall be damned. I make his great
commission, so that he is preached my gospel
through by all the world. that you can do to all the
wonder I will do. You must teach all nations my
command, I am, and you must tell them all,
children, that I think that's enough I have. Okay.
Okay.
Let me come in. Ice the window and open the door. Let
me come in. Yeah, let me come in. Oh, let me come in.
Ice the window and open the door. Let me come in.
Ice, little baby, don't you cry. Mother and father
are born to die. I surrender, surrender,
surrender, surrender, surrender, surrender,
surrender, come in. I surrender and open the door
and let me come in. I
can't see much. Born in 1844. Huh? My name is
Wallace Quarterman, in and through the state of
Georgia.
The morning I was shooting breakfast in the house,
and the big gun shot to portray us. The big gun shot,
so I buy a kind of breakfast in the house. The
overseer asked me, what is that if that is thunder?
I tell him, I don't know. I know what the answer is.
And so he shot three times, and he commenced to
shoot. until the plate commenced to rattle on the
table. And he called me and told me to run down in the
field and tell Peter to turn the people loose that
the Yankees come. And so I run down in the field and
hooped and hollered at him, Peter, and told him,
Mr. Giggo said turn the people loose because the
Yankees come. Who was Peter? The driver. And so he
said that, uh, Wallace was lying when he said so.
When he said so, then the Yankee beat to the land and
they drowned. You understand, way down south,
getting mighty poor. Kids, they used to drink
coffee, but now they're drinking rye. They said,
let's raise a uniband, make the rebel understand
to leave our land for the sake of Uncle Sam. Way down
south, getting mighty poor, shut out the wildcat
and see the rebel run. I ain't gonna end up with them
team again. I've been over all of them. Yes. And
that, the people then throw where they go then.
They throw where they go, and they call we all up,
you know, and give you all freedom, because we are
this much as free as them. Now you understand. But
the Yankee thing must go back to the South to help
me. Well, they didn't. Of course, there was so much
doubt. And thinking the way, they would have done
more. But there's so much doubt in the way. They
couldn't because the colored people should have
been poor. And some white people should have been
poor too. You understand? And the reddish, that's
them. That's me. I satisfy so far what the Lord has
done for me. I come through. So all this has been up
and down through the militia. Well, tell me about
how they went to Hawkinsville and drove the sword
down in the ground. He told them. They know you.
342B.
After they said you can go free, Then what did you
do? Did you run on off the plantation that day? Did
you leave the plantation that day after they told
you to go free? Well, the mortars promised to give
me $40 a month in rent. Well, lots of the boys said
they ain't want it. They'd rather go free, you
know. Well, of course, by I have built, you
understand, I get along with them, you know. Eat
right out the big pot, you know. And after they sold
down sword down, they just make them sword down and
they just get on the sword and squash them down. You
go in Hawkinsville and you see all the swords down
now in the ground. And after the sword was down,
there's tension and then south tension. And after
the south tension, then they play. Yes, play the
one foot one way, one foot the other way, one foot
all the way around. What about
afterwards,
you
know, when the Scottish people had the jail and
everything? Tell us about that. Yeah, that's me.
Everything's been in me hands. But they couldn't
control the colored people. They do so much
mischief and tell me after going back to the white
people, we had education. You know, when a man
ain't got no education, he ain't got no thing. All
we tried to show them, they wouldn't take this,
kill one another and join us. So we had to nominate
Democrats over the head. They didn't like it. Many
got killed by nominating the Democrats, but we
couldn't help it to stop them so much killing. You
understand? So we nominated the Democrats and we
had a big time from that till now. The time ain't
bad, because it's been then. Because a man thinks
nothing of killing a man and taking a drink of
water. But since we nominate the Democrats, we
have more insurance, you understand? The law come
in possession then, you know, they wouldn't hear
it, the colored people. Told, mama, told. Yes,
that's the way they come in possession. But we had
our own lawyers, judges and everything, where
they just would run everything in the dust, you
know, kill everything, couldn't stand it. Well,
did you ever have an office? Did you ever hold an
office? I would want an office. Oh, yeah. Now, man,
I wouldn't want an office for an officer, an unjust
kind of thing. You understand? You've got to go and
please that fellow, you know. You've got to stop
doing what God tells you and go and please that
fellow. And the right way will you rap out. What's
becoming your old master? Old master? He died in
the Yadda fever. He was a nice man to me. I wouldn't
take anything from him. What was his name? Colonel
Fedvary. Fred Berry. Yes, he was a kind of. I
wouldn't take anything, but me and him was just
like one, you know. Yes. Yes, ma'am. Well, where
was his plantation? His plantation on Savannah
River. You know, Killeby Island. Mm-hmm. You
know, Chatham County, you know, Savannah. Yes. On
Killeby Island. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yes. I wouldn't
take nothing from him. Well, did the white folks
like his willingness? And you all were in power?
Oh, they liked me. They would like me all the way,
because I would text them, you know. I would text
them, I would hold it. I would hold it, yanking
myself, and then destroy them, you know. You see, I
just didn't understand how to speak, you know.
Tell another, you know. I see a man going to do a
wrong thing, I'd show something. I'd stop him.
Well, did the white people, did your mouth and all
them like to see the Negroes be the judge in the jail
and everything? No, you see, according to law, you
know. You don't mind you be that way if you know what
you're doing. Don't you see? Yeah. You see, they
don't know what they're doing. And they prove that
they
This is AFS recording number 9,990
of original LWO number 1500. This is reel number
three of three.
Talk to who? Well, just tell me what your name is.
My name is Fountain Hughes.
I was born in Charlottesville, Virginia.
My grandfather belonged to Thomas Jefferson. My
grandfather was 115 years old when he died. And now
I am 101 years old. That's enough.
But what she made, I don't know. I never
asked her. You just go ahead and talk away there.
You don't mind, do you, Uncle Sam? No. And when now
your husband and you both are young, you all try to
live like young people ought to live. Don't want
everything somebody else has got. Whatever you
get, it is human. Be satisfied. And don't spend
your money until you get it. So many people get in
debt. Well, oh, it's so cheap and I bought it. You
spend your money before you get it because you're
going in debt for what you want. When you want
something, wait until you get the money and pay for
it cash. That's what I've done. If I wanted
anything, I'd wait until I got the money and I paid
for it cash. I never bought nothing on time in my
life. Now, plenty of people, if they want a suit of
clothes, they go to work and they buy them on time.
Well, they say it was cheap. If you got the money,
you can buy them cheaper. They want something for
waiting on you until you get ready to pay them. And
if you got the money, you can go where you choose and
buy it when you want it. See? Don't buy it because
somebody else go down and run a debt and run a bill or
I'm going to run it too. Don't do that. I never done
it. Now, I'm 100 years old, and I don't owe nobody
five cents. I ain't got no money either. I'm just as
happy as somebody that's got a million. Nothing
worries me. My head ain't even white. Nothing in
the world worries me. I can sit here in this house
till night. Nobody can come and say, Mr. Hughes,
you owe me a quarter, you owe me a dollar, you owe me
five cents. No, you can't. I don't owe you nothing.
Why? I never made no bills in my life. And I'm
living, too. And I'm 100 years old. And if you take
my advice today, you'll never make a bill. Of
course, what you want, give me money to pay in cash.
And then the rest of the money is yours. But here on
the bill, they... Well, so much and so much, and you
don't have to pay. Nothing down. When you come to
pay, it's all... You have to pay no more. But
they'll charge you more. They're getting
something out of you, else they wouldn't trust
you. But I can't just say what they're getting. But
they're getting something out of you, else they
wouldn't want your credit. Now, I tell you that.
Anybody that trusts you for $2 or half a count with
them by the month or by the week, store count or any
count, they're getting something out of you. Else
they don't want to accommodate you that much to
trust you. Now, if I want, of course, I ain't got no
clothes, but if I want some clothes, if I ain't got
no money, I'm going to wait until I get the money to
buy them. I'm not going to say, of course, I can get
them on the church. I go down and get them. I got to
pay a dollar more anyhow. You're either going to
charge them or what you said, taxes or so much. But
if I got the money to pay cash, I pay the taxes and all
down cash, then it's all done with. So many colored
people, head over heels in debt. Trust me, trust
me. I get it on time. So I want a set of furniture. But
I don't pay down so much and rest on time. You don't
pay it for them then. When you pay down so much, you
may charge $50, $100 for a set, and you pay down $25
cash. You don't pay it for them. That's all it was
worth, $25. Now I'm $75 in debt now. Of course, I
have to pay $100, that's it. And it's only worth
about $25. But you bind on time. But people ain't
got sense enough to know it. But when you get old
like I am, you come in and you think, well, I have
done wrong. I should have kept my money until I
wanted this thing, and when I wanted it, I take my
money and go cash cash, or else I do without it.
Suppose you want a new dress. You say, well, I buy
it, but
I don't need it. But I can get it on time. Well, let's
go down to the store today and get something on
time. Why don't you go down and get a dress on time,
something else, and let him I won't have to sell
that to you on time. You don't have to pay nothing
down. But there's a payday coming. And when that
payday comes, they want you to come pay them. If you
don't, they can't get no more. Well, if you never do
that, if you don't start it, you will never end it. I
never did buy nothing on time. I must tell you on
this, I'm sitting right here now today, and if it's
the last word I've got to tell you, I never even much
as tried to buy a shirt on time. And plenty of people
go to work, down to the store and buy $3 and $4 for a
shirt, $2, $3, $7, $8 for a pair of pants. Of course,
they get them on time. I don't know, no, no. I say,
I've got, I buy some for $5. What I got to $5, I'll pay
for it. I'm done with that. You talk about how old
you are, Uncle Fountain. How far back do you
remember? I
remember, well, I tell you, things come to me in
spells, you know. I remember things more when I'm
laying down than I do when I'm standing, when I'm
walking around. Now, in my boy days,
boys lived quite different from the way they live
now. But boys wasn't as mean as they are now either.
Boys lived to,
they had a good time. The masters didn't treat them
bad. And they were always satisfied. They never
wore no shoes until they were 12 or 13 years old. Now
people put on shoes on babies, you know, when
they're two years old, when they're a month old, I
don't know. Put shoes on babies just as soon as you
see them out in the street, they got shoes on. I told
a woman the other day, I said, I never had no shoes
until I was 13 years old. She said, well, but you
bruised your feet all up and stumped your toes. I
said, yes, many times I've stumped my toes and
blood run out of them. That didn't make them buy me
no shoes. And I've been... Oh...
Oh, you wore a dress like a woman until I was 10, 12,
13 years old. You wore a dress, Philip? Yes, I
didn't wear no pants because I didn't make boys'
pants. Boys wore dresses. Now the women's wearing
the dresses and the boys are going with the...
The women's wearing the pants now and the boys are
wearing the dresses. Who did you work for, Uncle
Tom? Who did I work for? Yeah. You mean when I was a
slave? Yeah, when you were a slave. Who did you work
for? Well, I belonged to Burnish when I was a slave.
My mother belonged to Burnish.
But we was all slave children. Soon after, when we
found out that we were free, Well, then we was bound
out to different people. Thicklin, Andrew, and
Andrews, and all such people as that. And we'd run
away and wouldn't stay with them. Well, then we'd
just go and stay wherever we could, lay out all
night, you know, anywhere. We had no home, you
know. We just turned out like a lot of cattle. You
know how they turn cattle out in the pasture? Well,
after freedom, you know, colored people didn't
have nothing. Colored people didn't have no beds
when they were slaves. People slept on the floor.
Padded here and padded there. Just like a lot of
wild people, we didn't know nothing. Didn't lie
looking no book. And there were some pre-born
colored people where they had little education.
But there were very few of them where we was. And we
all had a, what you call, I might call it now, jail
sentence, just the same as we were in jail. Now, I
couldn't go from here across the street, or I
couldn't go to nobody's house without having a
note or something from my master. And if I had that
pass, that was what we called a pass, if I had that
pass, I could go wherever he sent me, and I'd have to
be back. Whoever he sent me to, they'd give me
another pass, And I'd bring that back so as to show
how long I'd been gone. We couldn't go out and stay
an hour or two hours or something like that. They'd
send you, you know, say, for instance, I'd go out to
the shirtless place, I'd have to walk. And I'd have
to be back maybe an hour. Maybe they'd give me an
hour. I don't know just how long they'd give me. But
they'd give me a note so there wasn't nobody in the
field with me to tell who I belonged to. And when I
come back, I'd carry it to my master and give that to
him. That'd be all right. But I couldn't just walk
away like the people just now, you know. We were
slaves. We belonged to people. They'd sell us,
like they sell horses and cows and hogs and all like
that, have an auction bench and put you up on the
bench and beat on you the same as you're beating on
cattle, you know. Was that in Charlotte that you
were a slave? Was that in Charlotte? Or
Charlottesville. That isn't Charlottesville.
Charlottesville, Virginia. They'd sell to
women, sell to men. And then if they had any bad
ones, they'd sell them to the nigger traders, what
they called the nigger traders. And they'd ship
them down south. They'd sell them down south. But
otherwise, if you were a good person, they
wouldn't sell you. But if you were bad, meaning
they didn't want to beat you and knock you around,
They'd sell you to what's called a nigger trader.
They'd have a regular... I was sold every month,
you know, at the courthouse. And then they'd sell
you, maybe $200, $100, $500.
Were you ever sold from one person to another? Were
you ever sold? No, I never was sold. You always
stayed with the same person? I was too young to
sell. Oh, I see. See, I wasn't old enough during the
war to sell, during the army. And my father got
killed in the army, you know, so it left us small
children just to live on whatever people choose to
give us. I would bind out for a dollar a month, and my
mother used to collect the money. Children
couldn't spend money when I come along. In fact,
When I come along, young men couldn't spend no
money until they were 21 years old. And then you're
21, well, then you could spend your money. But if
you wasn't 21, you couldn't spend no money. I
couldn't spend 10 cents if somebody gave it to me.
Of course, they'd think, well, you might have
stole it. We all come along, you might say, we had to
give an account of what you'd done. You couldn't
just do things and walk off and say, I didn't do it.
We'd have to give an account of it. Now, after we got
freed and they turned us out like cattle, we didn't
have nowhere to go. We didn't have nobody to boss
us. And we didn't know nothing. There wasn't no
school. And when they started the little school,
the people that were slaves, many of them couldn't
go to school. Except they had a father and a mother.
And my father was dead and my mother was living. But
she had three, four other little children. She had
to put them all to work to help take care of the
others. So we had what you call worse than dogs have
got it now. Dogs have got it now better than we had it
when we come along. I know, I remember one night I
was out after I was free and I didn't have nowhere to
go. I didn't have nowhere to sleep. I didn't know
what to do. My brother and I was together. So we knew
a man that had a living stable there. And we crept in
that yard and got in one of the hacks like an
automobile and slept in that hack all night long.
So next morning, we could get out and go where we
belonged. But we were afraid to go at night because
we didn't know where to go and didn't know what time
to go. But we had got away from there and we were
afraid to go back. So we kept sleeping in that thing
all night until the next morning and we got back
where we belonged before the people got up. As soon
as the day commenced to break, we got up and
commenced to go where we belonged. But we never
done that but the one time. After that, we... If it
was away, we'd try to get back before night come.
And that was on a Sunday, too, that we done that.
Now, when we were slaves, we couldn't do that, see?
And if we got free, we didn't know nothing to do. My
mother, she hunted places and bound us out for a
dollar a month. We stayed there maybe a couple of
years. She'd come over and collect the money every
month. And a dollar...